RA Blog Part 1 (#47)
keylime/keylime.github.io: _posts/2023-17-10-remote-attestation-blog-part1.markdown

<!-- ---
layout: blog
title:  "A Hitchhikers Guide to Remote Attestation"
author: "Margie Ruffin"
date:   2023-17-10
--- -->

# <h1 style="text-align: center; color:#6B98BF;"> 🚧 A Hitchhiker's Guide to Remote Attestation 🚧</h1>
<!-- # $${\color{#6B98BF}🚧 A Hitchhikers Guide to Remote Attestation 🚧}$$ -->
By: Margie Ruffin <br>
October 17, 2023

Let’s say you have servers somewhere far away, potentially hosted by your company or some other provider, but you sometimes wonder if you could ever fully trust that no one is doing anything sketchy on them. You may ask yourself, how can I prove that my machines have not been tampered with, or how can I prove that they are being tampered with? You may wonder how you can trust them. With Remote Attestation, you don’t have to wonder; you can use existing hardware solutions to prove that the machines can be trusted and are indeed in a secure state. 

> This article is Part 1 of this blog series revolving around Remote Attestation and Keylime. In this piece, we will briefly examine the concept of Remote Attestation and several of its components. In the end, I will introduce you to a software solution called Keylime, which you can use to implement this type of attestation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This article is Part 1 of this blog series revolving around Remote Attestation and Keylime. In this piece, we will briefly examine the concept of Remote Attestation and several of its components. In the end, I will introduce you to Keylime, which is a software solution you can use to implement this type of attestation.
```

<br>

<h3 style="text-align left; color:#6B98BF;"> Introduction to Remote Attestation </h3>

Cloud service providers, for example, inherently ask their customers to put significant trust in them each time they provide a service to them. Where does that trust come from? Why should a customer believe anything that a provider says is true? In reality, they shouldn’t unless it has been proven to them that their running systems have not been tampered with. Here is where Remote Attestation comes in. Attestation is designed to prove a property of a system to a third party, which, in this case, is you. It can provide proof that the execution environment can be trusted before beginning to execute code or before proceeding to deliver any secret information. 

This framework allows changes to the user’s computer, the attested (your remote servers), to be detected by authorized parties, the attestors (you on your local servers). In this framework, the attestor machine is already trusted by the customers, while the nodes they are provisioning through the cloud service providers are not. 

> Remote attestation can provide different services, such as measured boot attestation and runtime integrity monitoring, using a hardware-based cryptographic root of trust, otherwise known as a Trusted Platform Module (TPM). A TPM is a chip that conforms to the standards of a secure cryptoprocessor, which is a dedicated microcontroller designed to secure hardware through integrated cryptographic keys. It is used to store artifacts that work to authenticate the platform it is on. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Remote attestation can provide different services, such as measured boot attestation and runtime integrity monitoring, using a hardware-based cryptographic root of trust, for example as a Trusted Platform Module (TPM). A TPM is a chip that conforms to the standards of a secure cryptoprocessor, which is a dedicated microcontroller designed to secure hardware through integrated cryptographic keys. It is used to store artifacts that work to authenticate the platform it is on. 
```

Note that the TPM can be also implemented on the CPU. TPM is not the only hardware root of trust out there, but the one that we focus on with Keylime

<div style="text-align: center;">
<img  src="/Users/margieruffin/Desktop/Research/Keylime/keylime.github.io/assets/images/RemoteAttestation.png" alt="Remote Attestation Diagram">
</div>

**Figure 1: Remote Attestation is used to provide trust between an untrusted party and a trusted party. You can use services like Measured Boot Attestation and Runtime Integrity Monitoring to prove systems are trustworthy.**

In this article, we will detail the different aspects of remote attestation based on the following sections:
<ul>
    <li> What is Secure Boot? </li>
    <li> What is Measured Boot? </li>
    <li> Measured Boot and Secure Boot go Hand in Hand </li>
    <li> Integrity Measurement Architecture (IMA) for Continuous Attestation</li>
    <li> Introduction to Keylime, A Remote Attestation Software </li>
</ul>

<h3 style="text-align left; color:#6B98BF;"> What is Secure Boot? </h3>

> Trusted boot technologies rely on a “Root of Trust” (RoT), a source that can always be trusted within a cryptographic system. The RoT is usually a piece of code or hardware that’s been hardened well enough that it is unlikely to be compromised. The RoT cannot be modified at all or cannot be modified without cryptographic credentials. 

Reviewer: Root of trust is already mentioned a few lines above. Maybe introduce the abbreviation already there are, keep the the capitalization consistent.

> Trusted boot technologies rely on a “Root of Trust” (RoT), a source that can always be trusted within a cryptographic system. The RoT is usually a piece of code or hardware that’s been hardened well enough that it is unlikely to be compromised. The RoT cannot be modified at all or cannot be modified without cryptographic credentials. 

Reviewer: If you want you can follow the definition by the TCG:
```
A component that performs one or more security-specific functions, such as
measurement, storage, reporting, verification, and/or update. It is trusted al-
ways to behave in the expected manner, because its misbehavior cannot be
detected (such as by measurement) under normal operation.
```

Source: https://trustedcomputinggroup.org/wp-content/uploads/TCG-Glossary-V1.1-Rev-1.0.pdf

> Trusted boot technologies rely on a “Root of Trust” (RoT), a source that can always be trusted within a cryptographic system. The RoT is usually a piece of code or hardware that’s been hardened well enough that it is unlikely to be compromised. The RoT cannot be modified at all or cannot be modified without cryptographic credentials. 

Reviewer: Note that you are mixing trusted and measured boot in the article. Maybe just use measured boot.

> Unified Extended Firmware Interface (UEFI) Secure Boot is a security measure developed to ensure that a device is booted using only software trusted by the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM). The goal is to prevent malicious software from being loaded and executed early in the boot process. During secure boot, the kernel checks if a cryptographic signature, a hash value, on the boot loader matches a pre-loaded value signed by the manufacturer, stored inside the BIOS, that anyone can check using a public key made available. 

Reviewer: The kernel does not have directly something to do with Secure Boot because it is the last component in that chain. (In some cases the UEFI Secure Boot certificates are loaded onto the kernel keyring, but that is a more complex topic). The UEFI firmware does the verification in the first step, then the bootloaders can either use the firmware to check the next component or as in the case with most x86 UEFI Linux systems that use a shim (https://github.com/rhboot/shim) via the shim lock protocol (e.g. https://www.gnu.org/software/grub/manual/grub/html_node/UEFI-secure-boot-and-shim.html).  For simplification we can just say that in Secure Boot that the next component is verified by the component before.

On a normal UEFI implementation you have three major keys/certificates involved:
* Platform Key (PK): Is created by the OEM, allows the enrollment of the KEK
* Key Exchange Key (KEK): Is on most systems one from Microsoft. Allows to update i.e. the DB entries
* Allowed signatures database (DB): certificates actually used to verify the boot components. On x86 UEFI systems you likely find here the Windows CA and the third-party Windows CA.

Details can be found for example here: https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/manufacture/desktop/windows-secure-boot-key-creation-and-management-guidance?view=windows-11

Most users only will not interact with those keys, but in many cases you can also enroll your own setup. I don't know what is most common by the cloud providers.

> Secure boot prevents boot if the two signatures, the preloaded value, and the calculated value during the boot process do not match. If the decrypted hash does not match the new one just taken, the secure boot will fail for reasons such as someone changing the kernel. This process of checking the kernel's signatures occurs before the OS ever runs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Secure Boot prevents boot if the signature cannot be validated against a certificate enrolled in the bootchain. For example if someone changes the kernel to a custom one, it is not signed by the OS vendor. This causes the boot to stop because the bootloader couldn't verify the signature. The process of checking the kernel's signatures occurs before the OS ever runs.
```

<h3 style="text-align left; color:#6B98BF;"> What is Measured Boot? </h3>

> Measured Boot uses the same RoT as Secure Boot; however, unlike Secure Boot, it will check each startup component, including firmware, all the way up to the boot drivers. A hash is taken at each boot process step for the next object(s) in the chain. The hashes are stored inside the TPM so that they can be securely retrieved later to find out what objects were encountered. With Measured Boot, the boot process is never stopped, but it provides the necessary information to detect attacks. 

Reviewer: ```
Measured Boot uses the same RoT as Secure Boot
```

This statement is false. The RoT for Secure Boot is the DB in the firmware. The RoT for Measured Boot is the TPM. 

```suggestion
Unlike Secure Boot, Measured Boot will measure each startup component, including firmware, all the way up to the boot drivers. A hash is taken at each boot process step for the next object(s) in the chain. The hashes are extended to the TPM  and added to a event log so that they can be securely retrieved later to find out what objects were encountered. With Measured Boot, the boot process is never stopped, but it provides the necessary information to detect attacks. 
```

> 

Reviewer: Might be a good idea on how to describe how the PCR extend operation in a TPM works and why it allows us to verify an entire log.

<h3 style="text-align left; color:#6B98BF;"> Measured Boot and Secure Boot Go Hand in Hand </h3>

These two processes go hand-in-hand to ensure trusted Operating System (O/S) boots. Measured Boot guards the system from the processor powering on to the point where the operating system is ready to run. The issue is that once the O/S is booted, Measured Boot stops and its output is encapsulated into the measured boot log and the PCR values in the TPM. Now that the O/S is unguarded, it is **conceivable** that someone could manage to navigate to the boot event log, the PCRs, and the TPM and alter them retroactively. They could even go as far as to replace the TPM device with a virtual TPM. 

Secure Boot depends on Measured Boot to guard the UEFI Bios. Measured Boot will check the competent and take a hash of it to be stored for later to help prove whether or not it has been tampered with. The UEFI Bios will prevent an unsigned kernel from booting properly if the hashes taken do not match at the time and will boot the kernel in “lockdown mode,” which will prevent alterations to it. This makes making retroactive alteration of the measured boot output harder. 

> Measured Boot guards the UEFI Bios during the secure boot process by taking a hash at its step in the boot process. Secure boot guards the post-boot integrity of the kernel by keeping it in “lockdown mode” in case something suspicious happens. Both are needed to get to a point where we have a completely booted system with a kernel that can be trusted. 

Reviewer: As already discussed the main difference is:

* Secure Boot: verification stage by stage (normally using signatures), boot fails if something cannot be validated
* Measured Boot: each component is measured before executed the boot process generally not stops.

There also exists the terms of verified and trusted boot. The issue seems to be that there is no clear definitions of those terms .

For Remote Attestation Secure Boot is not strictly necessary, because we can just check if the correct components were booted (it can just make it easier for us to make conclusions about that system). For Local Attestation (e.g. BitLocker) we might want to seal secrets against the Secure Boot state, then those technologies are combined.  We do not need the kernel to be trustworthy for Measured Boot because the RoT is the TPM.

> 

Reviewer: Here it feels like that there is a section missing on how Remote Attestation + Measured Boot work.

<h3 style="text-align left; color:#6B98BF;"> Integrity Measurement Architecture (IMA) for Continuous Attestation </h3>

> The two previously described aspects of Remote Attestation are helpful for a one-time check to see if the server you have provisioned was altered before it was booted and running. But what can you do if you want to continuously make sure that things aren’t being altered in real-time? You can use Linux kernel's Integrity Measurement Architecture (IMA) for that. Implementing IMA with your Remote Attestation framework lets you detect if files have been accidentally or maliciously altered. You can, both remotely and locally, appraise a file's current measurement against a "good" value stored as an extended attribute and enforce local file integrity. IMA collects file hashes and places them in kernel memory where other applications cannot access or modify them. With Secure and Measured Boot enabled, we established a chain of trust from the TPM all the way up to the running kernel. Because the kernel is now trusted, we can trust it to measure files with IMA, thus extending that trust to the files. 

Reviewer: Note here that for IMA the RoT is still the TPM because we extend those measurements into the TPM.

> The two previously described aspects of Remote Attestation are helpful for a one-time check to see if the server you have provisioned was altered before it was booted and running. But what can you do if you want to continuously make sure that things aren’t being altered in real-time? You can use Linux kernel's Integrity Measurement Architecture (IMA) for that. Implementing IMA with your Remote Attestation framework lets you detect if files have been accidentally or maliciously altered. You can, both remotely and locally, appraise a file's current measurement against a "good" value stored as an extended attribute and enforce local file integrity. IMA collects file hashes and places them in kernel memory where other applications cannot access or modify them. With Secure and Measured Boot enabled, we established a chain of trust from the TPM all the way up to the running kernel. Because the kernel is now trusted, we can trust it to measure files with IMA, thus extending that trust to the files. 

Reviewer: In IMA appraisal normally means local (in the sense of on the device) file integrity enforcement. Maybe only introduce only the measurement part first, because the appraisal is explained in the next section in more detail.

In just a few short steps, we can see how IMA works.

<ol>

>     <li> An integrity challenge mechanism allows for a remote attestor (you on your trusted machine) to request a measurement list (IMA Log) and a TPM-signed aggregate of the measurement from the attesting system (the untrusted machine). </li>

Reviewer: Use here what a PCR is and that we can get those values and and a signature of those values aggregated into one hash.

Author: I explained in detail how to extend the PCRs in a section above. Do you think I should reiterate or do you mean explain something else?

Reviewer: No that's fine

For measured boot attestation to be fully useful, Keylime operators should provide their own measured boot reference state and measured boot policy. Ideally, you want to create a policy that is both meaningful and generic enough to be applied to a set of nodes. One can change the pre-provided mb_policy to suit their needs rather than attempting to write a brand new one from scratch.

If you want to read more about how to enable measured boot on Keylime, you can do that [here](https://keylime.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user_guide/use_measured_boot.html). 

<h4 style="text-align: center; color:#99A3A4 ;"> Keylime, IMA, and Runtime Integrity Monitoring </h4>

To use Keylime’s Runtime Integrity Monitoring, there are a few steps that you will need to take to either enable Linux IMA or ensure that it is already running. As we learned a few sections ago, IMA is used to measure the contents of files at runtime. However, before it can do that, you will have to tell it what to measure using an ***ima-policy***. In the Keylime repository, you will find an example policy that can be used, and in the documentation, you will find instructions on enabling IMA. 

> In Keylime, a ***runtime policy*** is a list of “golden” cryptographic hashes of files in their untampered state that are used for IMA verification. The Keylime verifier will load the runtime policy and use it to validate the agent’s file states that are loaded onto the TPM. If the files have been tampered with, the hashes will not match, and Keylime will place the agent into a failed state. The Keylime agent and operating system itself are not deemed trustworthy by default. Given the setup only after the successful initial attestation is the system deemed trustworthy, but it still can leave the trusted state at any moment and is, therefore, continuously attested.

Reviewer: We also support checking against IMA signatures.

If you want to read more about how to build a runtime policy for Keylime and then deploy it, you can do that [here](https://keylime.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user_guide/runtime_ima.html). 

<h4 style="text-align: center; color:#99A3A4 ;"> How Keylime Can Help You </h4>

Remote attestation is a way for you to create peace of mind that you can and will detect when something is amiss inside a cluster. By building a chain of trust from hardware to software, you can ensure your data is protected. 

Keylime is commonly used either on bare metal hardware or in VMs where the TPM is emulated but, from the VM side, treated the same as a hardware TPM. In this article, we have seen what Keylime can detect:

<ul>
    <li> Modification of the boot process </li>
    <li> Runtime file and system integrity </li>
</ul>

> While it won’t stop anything after an alert is raised, Keylime is still a great tool to have because it will tell you what has happened and where. Perfect for someone managing a lot of machines!

Reviewer: ```
While it won’t stop anything after an alert is raised,
```

You can implement what ever you want around the revocation hook that Keylime provides, e.g. remove the node from the cluster when it Keylime detects that it is compromised.

<ul>
    <li> What is Secure Boot? </li>
    <li> What is Measured Boot? </li>
    <li> Measured Boot and Secure Boot go Hand in Hand </li>
    <li> Integrity Measurement Architecture (IMA) for Continuous Attestation</li>
    <li> Introduction to Keylime, A Remote Attestation Software </li>
</ul>

<h3 style="text-align left; color:#6B98BF;"> What is Secure Boot? </h3>

Unified Extended Firmware Interface (UEFI) Secure Boot is a security measure developed to ensure that a device is booted using only software trusted by the Original Equipment Manufacturer (OEM). The goal is to prevent malicious software from being loaded and executed early in the boot process. During secure boot, the next component is verified by the component before.

Secure Boot prevents boot if the signature cannot be validated against a certificate enrolled in the bootchain. For example if someone changes the kernel to a custom one, it is not signed by the OS vendor. This causes the boot to stop because the bootloader couldn't verify the signature. The process of checking the kernel's signatures occurs before the OS ever runs.

> <h3 style="text-align left; color:#6B98BF;"> What is Measured Boot? </h3>

Reviewer 2: Very minor issue but it seems that because there's not an empty line between the H3 (line 49) and the opening paragraph of the section (line 50), at least on GH, line 50 is not interpreted as a paragraph and does not get wrapped in `<p>` tags. Not sure if the markdown parser used to render the blog posts acts differently though

Author: I added a space, so hopefully that clears things up.

This framework allows changes to the user’s computer, the attested (your remote servers), to be detected by authorized parties, the attestors (you on your local servers). In this framework, the attestor machine is already trusted by the customers, while the nodes they are provisioning through the cloud service providers are not. 

Remote attestation can provide different services, such as measured boot attestation and runtime integrity monitoring, using a hardware-based cryptographic "Root of Trust" (RoT), for example, a Trusted Platform Module (TPM). A TPM is a chip that conforms to the standards of a secure cryptoprocessor, which is a dedicated microcontroller designed to secure hardware through integrated cryptographic keys. It is used to store artifacts that work to authenticate the platform it is on. 

<div style="text-align: center;">

> <img  src="/Users/mruffin2/Desktop/Research/Keylime/keylime.github.io/assets/images/RemoteAttestation.png" alt="Remote Attestation Diagram">

Reviewer: The images need to be relative paths, not absolute ones otherwise they won't show up on the website.

</div>

**Figure 1: Remote Attestation is used to provide trust between an untrusted party and a trusted party. You can use services like Measured Boot Attestation and Runtime Integrity Monitoring to prove systems are trustworthy.**

In this article, we will detail the different aspects of remote attestation based on the following sections:
<ul>
    <li> What is Secure Boot? </li>
    <li> What is Measured Boot? </li>
    <li> Measured Boot and Secure Boot go Hand in Hand </li>
    <li> Integrity Measurement Architecture (IMA) for Continuous Attestation</li>
    <li> Introduction to Keylime, A Remote Attestation Software </li>
</ul>

<h3 style="text-align left; color:#6B98BF;"> What is Secure Boot? </h3>

> Measured boot technologies rely on a RoT, a source that can always be trusted within a cryptographic system. The RoT is a component that performs one or more security-specific functions, such as measurement, storage, reporting, verification, and/or update. It is trusted always to behave in the expected manner, because its misbehavior cannot be detected (such as by measurement) under normal operation. The RoT cannot be modified at all or cannot be modified without cryptographic credentials. 

Reviewer: This is in the wrong section.

Unlike Secure Boot, Measured Boot will measure each startup component, including firmware, all the way up to the boot drivers. A hash is taken at the first step in the boot process and is extended for the next object(s) in the chain. It is stored in a chosen Platform Configuration Register (PCR), which is a memory location in the TPM. The extend operation allows for data to be appended the value already stored in the PCR. A hash of the newly formed data is the result, and that is stored back into the PCR. The final hash can be seen as a checksum of log events. With this, an auditor can later come and validate the logs by computing the expected PCR values from the log and then comparing them to the PCR values of the TPM. One can verify the validity of the kernel because measured boot checks each compenent in the start-up process and the final hash value encapsulates all of them in their present (at that time) state. With Measured Boot, the boot process is never stopped, but it provides the necessary information to detect attacks. 

<h3 style="text-align left; color:#6B98BF;"> Measured Boot and Secure Boot Go Hand in Hand </h3>

> These two processes go hand-in-hand to ensure a trusted Operating System (O/S) boots. Measured Boot guards the system from the processor powering on to the point where the operating system is ready to run. The issue is that once the O/S is booted, Measured Boot stops and its output is encapsulated into the measured boot log and the PCR values in the TPM. Now that the O/S is unguarded, it is **conceivable** that someone could manage to navigate to the boot event log, the PCRs, and the TPM and alter them retroactively. They could even go as far as to replace the TPM device with a virtual TPM. 

Reviewer: The word guards has thrown me off here, because it doesn't do it actively, instead it provides a way that we can check any tampering of the system afterwards.

Also add a sentence why it doesn't mater if someone switches out the TPM. Some mention of the Endorsement Key + Certificate as a unique identity.

> Secure Boot depends on Measured Boot to guard the UEFI Bios. Measured Boot will check the competent and take a hash of it to be stored for later to help prove whether or not it has been tampered with. The UEFI Bios will prevent an unsigned kernel from booting properly if the hashes taken do not match at the time and will boot the kernel in “lockdown mode,” which will prevent alterations to it. This makes making retroactive alteration of the measured boot output harder. 

Reviewer: No only secure boot does this all. It just when Secure Boot does a decision it gets measured by measured boot.

>This makes making retroactive alteration of the measured boot output harder.

Yes, but the TPM is the reason that it doesn't matter, not secure boot.

Secure Boot -> Local integrity checking at the point of execution
Measured Boot -> Allows checking the integrity after the system was bootet.

Author: Should I take the last sentence out since it isn't accurate or rephrase it to include the reason being the TPM?

Author: I can also add a sentence after the ***which will prevent alterations to it.*** to say that measured boot will allow for integrity checking after the system is booted

Measured Boot guards the UEFI Bios during the secure boot process by taking a hash at its step in the boot process. Secure boot guards the post-boot integrity of the kernel by keeping it in “lockdown mode” in case something suspicious happens. Both are needed to get to a point where we have a completely booted system with a kernel that can be trusted. 

> In any production enviroment a large number of different types of nodes can be found. One can use remote attestation to in cobination with measured boot to determine and verifiy a platform's configuration. A measured boot reference state can be specified ahead of time for each node type and given to the remote attestation operator along with a measured boot policy that is used to instruct the verifier on how to do the comparison. With this mechanism in place the operator can ensure the validity of the kernals for their enitre cluster. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In any production enviroment a large number of different types of nodes can be found. One can use remote attestation to in combination with measured boot to determine and verify a platform's configuration. A measured boot reference state can be specified ahead of time for each node type and given to the remote attestation operator along with a measured boot policy that is used to instruct the verifier on how to do the comparison. With this mechanism in place the operator can ensure the validity of the kernels for their entire cluster. 
```

<h3 style="text-align left; color:#6B98BF;"> Measured Boot and Secure Boot Go Hand in Hand </h3>

These two processes go hand-in-hand to ensure a trusted Operating System (O/S) boots. Measured Boot assesses the system from the processor powering on to the point where the operating system is ready to run. The issue is that once the O/S is booted, Measured Boot stops, and its output is encapsulated into the measured boot log and the PCR values in the TPM. Now that the O/S is unguarded, it is **conceivable** that someone could manage to navigate to the boot event log, the PCRs, and the TPM and alter them retroactively. They could even go as far as to replace the TPM device with a virtual TPM. However, even if someone did manage to switch out the TPM to alter the boot event log, with the unique Endorsement Key (EK) bound to the TPM and its EK certificate signed by a trusted certificate authority, the identity of a TPM can be verified before trust is established. 

> Secure Boot depends on Measured Boot to guard the UEFI Bios. Measured Boot will check the component and take a hash of it to be stored for later to help prove whether or not it has been tampered with. The UEFI Bios will prevent an unsigned kernel from booting properly if the hashes taken do not match at the time and will boot the kernel in “lockdown mode,” which will prevent alterations to it. Measured boot will allow for integrity checking after the system is booted.

Reviewer: Just write UEFI instead of UEFI Bios.

These are three mostly orthogonal technologies:
- Secure Boot: Enforce integrity locally using signatures
- Measured Boot: Make the boot chain and the security related settings attestable once the system is booted
- Kernel lockdown features: Enforce higher integrity measures in the kernel. (Require modules to be signed, lock down ACPI features etc.)

Basically Measured Boot allows us to verify the configuration of Secure Boot after the fact. Similarly Secure Boot ensures that in the first place only software that we trust was booted (assuming nobody tampered with the UEFI CA setup)

Using a hardware-based cryptographic RoT, a Keylime user can monitor their remote nodes for system tampering at boot while continuously in service. Keylime is an alert system that will notify the operator by raising a flag if measured boot attestation fails (i.e., someone has altered the kernel) or if runtime integrity monitoring fails (i.e., someone maliciously altered an executable system file). 
Using a hardware-based cryptographic RoT, a Keylime user can monitor their remote nodes for system tampering at boot while continuously in service. Keylime is an alert system that will notify the operator by raising a flag if measured boot attestation fails (i.e., someone has altered the kernel) or if runtime integrity monitoring fails (i.e., someone maliciously altered an executable system file). 

The Keylime tool mainly consists of 4 components: an **agent**, a **verifier**, a **registrar**, and a commandline tool called the **tenant**. 

The agent is a service that runs on an untrusted operating system, which is to be attested. It communicates with the TPM and collects necessary data to make attestation possible. 

> The verifier is in charge of implementing the attestation of the agent. Essentially, it is the component saying ***yes, the agent is in policy***, or ***no, the agent is not in policy***. If the agent fails attestation, the verifier can also send a revocation message (i.e., raise a flag) to alert the Keylime operator of a failed state. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The verifier is in charge of implementing the attestation of the agent. Essentially, it is the component saying ***yes, the agent is trusted***, or ***no, the agent is not trusted***. If the agent fails attestation, the verifier can also send a revocation message (i.e., raise a flag) to alert the Keylime operator of a failed state. 
```

For measured boot attestation to be fully useful, Keylime operators should provide their own measured boot reference state and measured boot policy. Ideally, you want to create a policy that is both meaningful and generic enough to be applied to a set of nodes. One can change the pre-provided mb_policy to suit their needs rather than attempting to write a brand new one from scratch.

If you want to read more about how to enable measured boot on Keylime, you can do that [here](https://keylime.readthedocs.io/en/latest/user_guide/use_measured_boot.html). 

<h4 style="text-align: center; color:#99A3A4 ;"> Keylime, IMA, and Runtime Integrity Monitoring </h4>

To use Keylime’s Runtime Integrity Monitoring, there are a few steps that you will need to take to either enable Linux IMA or ensure that it is already running. As we learned a few sections ago, IMA is used to measure the contents of files at runtime. However, before it can do that, you must tell it what to measure using an ***ima-policy***. In the Keylime repository, you will find an example policy that can be used, and in the documentation, you will find instructions on enabling IMA. 

> In Keylime, a ***runtime policy*** is a list of “golden” cryptographic hashes of files in their untampered state used for IMA verification. The Keylime verifier will load the runtime policy and use it to validate the agent’s file states that are loaded onto the TPM. If the files have been tampered with, the hashes will not match, and Keylime will place the agent into a failed state. The Keylime agent and operating system itself are not deemed trustworthy by default. Given the setup only after the successful initial attestation, the system is deemed trustworthy, but it still can leave the trusted state at any moment and is, therefore, continuously attested. It is important to mention that Keylime also supports the verification of IMA file signatures, which also helps to detect modifications on immutable files and can be used to complement or even replace the allowlist of hashes in the runtime policy if all relevant executables and libraries are signed. However, this setup is beyond the scope of this work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Keylime, a ***runtime policy*** is a list of “golden” cryptographic hashes of files in their untampered state used for IMA verification. The Keylime verifier will load the runtime policy and use it to validate the agent’s file states that are loaded onto the TPM. If the files have been tampered with, the hashes will not match, and Keylime will place the agent into a failed state. The Keylime agent and operating system itself are not deemed trustworthy by default. Given the setup only after the successful initial attestation, the system is deemed trustworthy, but it still can leave the trusted state at any moment and is, therefore, continuously attested. It is important to mention that Keylime also supports the verification of IMA file signatures, which also helps to detect modifications on immutable files and can be used to complement or even replace the allowlist of hashes in the runtime policy if all relevant executables and libraries are signed. However, this setup is beyond the scope of this introduction.
```

<!-- ---
layout: blog

> title:  "A Hitchhikers Guide to Remote Attestation"

Reviewer 3: love the title Margie :)

This framework allows changes to the user’s computer, the attested (your remote servers), to be detected by authorized parties, the attestors (you on your local servers). In this framework, the attestor machine is already trusted by the customers, while the nodes they are provisioning through the cloud service providers are not. 

Remote attestation can provide different services, such as measured boot attestation and runtime integrity monitoring, using a hardware-based cryptographic "Root of Trust" (RoT), for example, a Trusted Platform Module (TPM). A TPM is a chip that conforms to the standards of a secure cryptoprocessor, which is a dedicated microcontroller designed to secure hardware through integrated cryptographic keys. It is used to store artifacts that work to authenticate the platform it is on. 

> Remote attestation can provide different services, such as measured boot attestation and runtime integrity monitoring, using a hardware-based cryptographic "Root of Trust" (RoT), for example, a Trusted Platform Module (TPM). A TPM is a chip that conforms to the standards of a secure cryptoprocessor, which is a dedicated microcontroller designed to secure hardware through integrated cryptographic keys. It is used to store artifacts that work to authenticate the platform it is on. 

Reviewer 3: Maybe worth noting that the recent trend for TPMs goes towards firmware TPMs, and that there are pros and cons to that. Most hardware TPMs are I2C connected which has its own problems/attack vectors.
